# How to Request Changes to Repository Contents

Anyone can view the contents of a public repository, but only those logged in to a GitHub account can submit a _pull request_, that is, a formal request to change the contents of a repository that is sent to collaborators. Moreover, the pull request can be made only after the requester has _committed_ the requested changes to a _branch_. The change requested can include the addition of files or edits to a file.

The steps to requesting the addition of files are the following:  

1. From the [ABSEL Store](https://github.com/absel-store), click the **Repositories** menu item and click to select the repository targeted for the change. When the repository page comes up, to the immediate left of the **Code** button an **Add file** or **+** button will appear if you are allowed to add files to the repository. Click the button and select either _Create new file_ or _Upload files_. if the **Fork this repository** button appears, click it. If a please-try-again message appears on the lower left of the page, click the browser's back icon to return to the repository's page, then click the **Fork** button on the row of buttons above the **Code** button to bring up the **Create a new fork** page. Accepting defaults, click the **Create fork** button on the page. Fork successful, the repository page reappears. Click **Add file**, or **+**, again.

2. GitHub works best with files in [Markdown format](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax), a formatting language for text that is easy to learn, easy to type, and easy to read. Moreover, files in Microsoft's Word (docx) format can be automatically converted to Markdown by free converters, such as [word2markdown](https://word2md.com/). Thus, when entering a name for a new file, specifying the _dm_ extension (for example, `myfile.dm`) causes GitHub to treat the file as a Markdown-formatted file. In any case, whether the file is created or uploaded, click the **Commit changes** button, then the **Propose changes** button, then the **Create pull request** button, and then the **Create pull request** button again.

3.  In response, the conditions for reviewing and merging, that is, executing the requested action, are described, and an edit box is presented for adding a comment to accompany the pull request. The last action sends a message to collaborators that they should pull down the branch containing information about the proposed changes, review the changes, and submit a review. The changes proposed will be merged either automatically when the conditions are satisfied, or at the discretion of collaborators assigned to execute the action.

The process of proposing edits to a file begins with Step 1 above, except that when the repository page comes up, the file to be changed should be selected by a mouse click of its name from the list of files, to display the content of the selected file, followed by clicking the pencil icon on the upper right end of the menu above the content-display area. Then with the **Edit** tab selected, use the computer's keyboard to edit the content. If the name of the file ends with the _md_ extension, the file is Markdown-formatted, and a Markdown icon appears on the bottom right of the edit area. Click the Markdown icon for instructions on writing Markdown-formatted text.  

Proceed with the proposal by clicking the **Commit changes** button, then the **Propose changes** button, then the **Create pull request** button, and then either click the **Create pull request** button again or click the selector on the right end of the button to select the option to **Create draft pull request** instead. The draft pull request is handy when the proposal might be re-edited, perhaps repeatedly, before the proposer is ready to submit the proposal for review. The response and subsequent actions are as described in Step 3 above.  
